(LSTM) with sentiment analysis 


First, we apply sentiment analysis on the various company news, market sentiments and get the values. Then, the sentiment results are combined with the LSTM features and observed the results. 

he stock market prediction is a very interesting and classical problem, which has never failed to attract researchers from various multidisciplinary fields like statistics, economics, machine learning, deep learning, etc. [1].

For example, the accuracy achieved through support vector machine in daily stock value movement is approximately 56%.


Other than these, hybrid models are also used for the prediction. Tsai and Wang et al. [5] combined decision tree and neural networks for achieving a 70% accu- racy in predicting the stock values

The machine learning-based approaches cannot handle the non-stationarity of the values of stocks, in which the deep learning-based methods have shown considerable amount of accuracy [6]


companies to yield financial profit [9, 10].

 a crash in the stock market can have a large effect on the economy [11, 12].

 ay et al. [15] state that the SVM gives the best performance for financial time series data. It is observed that the implemented support vector machine algorithm performs very well in predicting the stock price downwards, irrespective of market trend but performance reduces significantly in predicting the stock price upwards [16].



In general, these methodologies can be broadly classified into two categories: sta- tistical techniques and machine learning-based strategies [17]. The statistical-based techniques includes auto-regressive integrated moving average approach (ARIMA) [18], linear regression-based approach, smooth transition auto-regressive (STAR), etc. [13]. These methodologies are based on the linearity among the distributed vari- ables, but in real stock market, these linearity assumptions are not satisfied.


overall sentiment is calculated by average of all the sentiments.


ARIMA is auto-regressive integrated moving average. These all terms are showing the various components of the method
It uses the past data to understand the pattern in time series. This technique is far better than any above. The reason is a capacity to capture a trend.
This model can capture a trend in the series, but does not focus on the seasonal part

Prophet is the library which requires no data preprocessing. The input is a dataframe with date and target columns
It can capture a trend of the graph and also seasonality from past data. 
As, stock values cannot depend upon particular trend or seasonality. Prophet is somewhat unusable in stock prediction


LSTM approach was introduced to overcome the problem of long-term dependencies.


LSTM approach uses a conveyor belt mechanism, which updates or removes only the desired information or data.


he news headlines which are shown on the Website are split into each word, and a polarity is assigned to each word and stored in a data structure. The polarity which is to be assigned is of three types: positive polarity, negative polarity, and a neutral polarity. 

LSTM module with other features like past stock values and market indices


From the experimental analysis, we conclude that the LSTM approach which uses combined data including the data of stock values and the sentiment analysis output data of news shows very high accuracy when we predict the price for long duration. For small data, or for a small period of time like one day prediction, the LSTM approach without the sentiment analysis of the news proves to be more efficient